---
layout: post
title:  "Notes on CMU Classes"
# date:   2021-08-11 # 01:32:35 -0500
permalink: /blog/classes
tags: classes
---
*Inspired by [these][numbat] [two][weihang] pages.*

☆: Courses which I especially enjoyed and/or thought were worth taking.

!: Courses which were particularly time consuming for me.

#### **Fall 2021 (Preliminary)**
- TA: 15-112 Fundamentals of Programming & CS
- 15-213 Introduction to Computer Systems
- 15-210 Parallel and Sequential Data Structures and Algorithms
- 21-325 Probability
- 60-220 IDeATe: Technical Character Animation

**Other**: [Penrose][penrose] team meetings, TBD

**Workload**: TBD

#### **Spring 2021**
- ☆ ! TA: 15-112 Fundamentals of Programming & CS
  - Took a lot of prep time, at least for my first time TA-ing. TP mentoring was by far the hardest part. Teaching recitation, helping students during OH, grading sessions, planning puzzle hunt, and leading a 3D graphics mini lecture was all pretty fun.
- ☆ 15-122 Principles of Imperative Computation
  - Programming assignments were fun!
- ☆ 15-150 Principles of Functional Programming
  - Functional programming is very clean and useful in actual codebases. There is a bit of introduction to programming language theory as well.
  - Functions are values :)
- ☆ ! 21-268 Multidimensional Calculus
  - Pretty challenging, as it was my first time taking a multivariable calc course. Some proofs with matrices and a little bit of real analysis. I think this course (or 21-269) is good for building a foundation for mathier subfields in graphics (differential geometry, optimization).
  - Prof. Fanhui Xu is a great lecturer and super encouraging.
- 73-102 Principles of Microeconomics
  - Weekly psets, open-note exams (at least during covid). Not too bad for a cat 2 humanities elective, but not that interesting for me. 
- 02-261 Quantitative Cell and Molecular Biology Laboratory
  - Pretty chill, had some short programming assignments in Python. A decent option for the SCS lab requirement. 
- 05-120 Introduction to Human-Computer Interaction
  - Survey course of different research areas and techniques within HCI, with a lot of group discussion and design-oriented projects. 

**Other**: GCS project (dropped)

**Workload**: moderate - heavy

#### **Fall 2020**
- ☆ 15-112 Fundamentals of Programming & CS
  - ! Made [Isometrism][iso] as my term project. Incorporating some 21-241 lecture material (change of basis, perspective rendering) was cool.
  - Great course for getting comfortable with coding and for learning solid fundamentals for 15-122, 15-150 (especially as I didn't have a good APCSA teacher). Recitations/solution sessions are good places to build or confirm intuition for problem-solving in general. Weekly FCE also goes down significantly (~10-12) if you have prior coding experience, expect during term project season. 
- ☆ ! 15-151 Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science
  - Introductory proof writing + discrete math, and also my hardest class freshman fall.    
  - A background in competition math definitely helped-- I wasn't that good at it in high school, but having done AMC/AoPS style problems before, I did better than I expected. 
- ☆ 21-241 Matrices & Linear Transformations
  - My first linear algebra class-- I thought it was a solid introduction, with basic proofs and many interesting applications (SVD, Markov matrices, perspective rendering, hamming code, spectral clustering, pageRank, etc.).
- 76-107/8 Writing about Data/Public Problems
  - Light and chill first year writing options, standard reading/discussion/essay assignments.  
- 07-128 SCS Freshman Immigration Course
  - Introductions to different majors/concentrations and departments within SCS. 
  - Probably would have been more fun to talk with other SCS freshmen and faculty in person :(
- 07-131 Great Practical Ideas in Computer Science
  - Useful for learning terminal/git basics, which I didn't really know before. TAs were all nice SCS upperclassmen with cool presentations and advice.
- 98-127 StuCo: Game Creation for People Who Want to Make Games

**Other**: worked in [LIMINAL][liminal] with Game Creation Society

**Workload**: mostly moderate

[numbat]: https://thenumbat.github.io/cmu/
[weihang]: http://weihang7.github.io/courses/
[iso]: {{site.url}}/code/isometrism
[liminal]: {{site.url}}/code/liminal
[penrose]: https://penrose.ink/
