---
layout: post
title:  "Notes on CMU Classes"
# date:   2021-08-11 # 01:32:35 -0500
permalink: /blog/classes
tags: classes
---
*Inspired by [these][numbat] [similar][weihang] pages.*

**Degree**: BS in Computer Science, concentration TBD..

**Background**: I entered CMU with a bit of programming experience (poorly taught APCSA, self-taught Python), and some competition math experience (AMC and related things, although I never made AIME). I did IB/AP in high school.

☆: Courses which I especially enjoyed and/or thought were worth taking.

!: Courses which were particularly time consuming for me.

#### **Spring 2022 (Preliminary)**
- 15-251 Great Theoretical Ideas in Computer Science
- 15-462 Computer Graphics
- 15-458 Discrete Differential Geometry
- 85-241 Social Psychology

**Other**: TBD

**Workload**: TBD

#### **Fall 2021**
- ! TA: 15-112 Fundamentals of Programming & CS
  - ☆ It was really fun to teach my reci students/TP mentees in person, and I made many good friends with other TAs on staff. 
  - A lot more work than it was remotely. Some internal issues that led to 18+ hrs/week conditions being fairly common, even during non-TP season. After two semesters TAing for 112, and talking with its lead TAs + ex TAs + TAs for other CS courses, in my opinion the working conditions as a 112 TA aren't very good, and apparently haven't been very good for a long time, especially if you care too much.
- ! 15-213 Introduction to Computer Systems
  - ☆ I thought the concepts for this class were quite cool, and labs were rewarding to finish.
  - I found this class to be poorly organized though-- lectures can be hard to follow if you have zero systems background, and support for labs is terrible. 
- ☆ ! 15-210 Parallel and Sequential Data Structures and Algorithms
  - I really enjoyed this class, despite not having great intuition for its content. The different algorithms, data structures, and algorithm design techniques were all really cool.
  - I found exams to be really hard and time crunch-y. 
- 36-218 Probability Theory for Computer Scientists
  - Not a good class if you're looking for a strong grounding in probability. The content is poorly motivated and tedious (mostly rote calculations). 
  - I would have liked more theory, but I didn't have enough time/mental capacity to handle 21-325 on top of 213, 210, and TAing. I also wasn't able to get permission to register for 15-259 for S22 without having taken 15-251.
- ☆ 60-220 IDeATe: Technical Character Animation
  - Pretty cool (and time consuming) class-- you learn about classic animation exercises and build up your own character animation reel over the course of the semester using Maya. 
  - I think people typically take this class after having taken 60-125 (which I had not), but I found it to be mostly okay. 
- (Dropped) 21-325 Probability
- (Dropped) 21-360 Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces
  - Seems like a cool class, but my schedule was already too heavy, and I felt poorly prepared to take it without any real analysis background. 

**Other**: [Penrose][penrose] team meetings (dropped)

**Workload**: heavy, sometimes death

**Notes**: 
- Taking two 200-level CS cores together is typically disallowed by SCS advisors-- I got permission from my advisor after having done well with a similar workload in S21, with the caveat that I would only take 4 courses.
- I wanted to take 213 + 210 because of mostly self-inflicted (and in hindsight, unnecessary) reasons: I wasn't interested in any CS electives that I could take in the fall, I didn't want to be one core behind most SCS students having taken 112 my first semester (and push off 15-451 to second semester junior year), I thought 210 would be helpful for finding an internship (kind of, but it ended up not being necessary for me), I did well in 122 + 150 and felt I could handle the workload. If I had started off CMU with 122 my first semester, I think I would have been content not doubling up on two cores.
- Having felt fine about 122 and 150 content, 213 + 210 together was still really hard for me (probably exasterbated by 20 hrs/week of TAing). I was pretty much always working on either one during the semester, with little to no free time. It's doable with good time management (starting early on both, staggering the labs on different weeks), although that doesn't mean it's a good idea.
- I considered doing 213 + 251 together so I would be able to take 213-prereq courses and 15-259 in the spring, but the F21 professor for 251 had poor FCEs, and both 213 and 251 "spike" around the first midterm, whereas 210 mostly doesn't spike. The general consensus among students is that 213 + 210, or 251 + 210 (if you like theory) are time-consuming but possibly doable combinations, while 213 + 251 is too much work.
- 210 would have probably been easier if I had taken 251 first, since I'm told that the two courses have some overlap.

#### **Spring 2021**
- ☆ ! TA: 15-112 Fundamentals of Programming & CS
  - Took a lot of prep time, at least for my first time TA-ing. TP mentoring was by far the hardest part. Teaching recitation, helping students during OH, grading sessions, planning puzzle hunt, and leading a 3D graphics mini lecture was all fun (and stressful). Non-TP weeks were around 13-15 hrs/week, TP season was ~18 hrs/week.
- ☆ 15-122 Principles of Imperative Computation
  - Programming assignments were fun, though exams and the constant stream of work were sometimes stressful. 
- ☆ 15-150 Principles of Functional Programming
  - Functional programming is very clean and useful in actual codebases. There is a bit of introduction to programming language theory as well.
  - The TAs for this class are really nice. Functions are values!
- ☆ ! 21-268 Multidimensional Calculus
  - Pretty challenging, as it was my first time taking a multivariable calc course. Some proofs with matrices and a little bit of real analysis (although I heard the rigor of this course depends heavily on the professor).
- 73-102 Principles of Microeconomics
  - Weekly psets, open-note exams (at least during covid). Not too bad for a cat 2 humanities elective.
- 02-261 Quantitative Cell and Molecular Biology Laboratory
  - Pretty chill, had some short programming assignments in Python. A decent option for the SCS lab requirement. 
- 05-120 Introduction to Human-Computer Interaction
  - Survey course of different research areas and techniques within HCI, with a lot of group discussion and design-oriented projects. 

**Other**: GCS project (dropped)

**Workload**: moderate - heavy

#### **Fall 2020**
- ☆ 15-112 Fundamentals of Programming & CS
  - ! Made [Isometrism][iso] as my term project. Incorporating some 21-241 lecture material (change of basis, perspective rendering) was cool (and janky as hell).
  - Great course for getting comfortable with coding and for learning solid fundamentals for 15-122, 15-150. Weekly FCE goes down significantly (~10-12) if you have prior coding experience, expect during term project season. 
- ☆ ! 15-151 Mathematical Foundations of Computer Science
  - Introductory proof writing + discrete math, and also my hardest class freshman fall.    
  - A background in competition math definitely helped-- I wasn't that good at it, but having done AMC/AoPS style problems before, I did better than I expected. 
- ☆ 21-241 Matrices & Linear Transformations
  - My first linear algebra class-- I thought it was well taught, with basic proofs and many interesting applications (SVD, Markov matrices, perspective rendering, hamming code, spectral clustering, pageRank, etc.).
- 76-107/8 Writing about Data/Public Problems
  - Light and chill first year writing options, standard reading/discussion/essay assignments.  
- 07-128 SCS Freshman Immigration Course
  - Introductions to different majors/concentrations and departments within SCS. 
  - Probably would have been more fun to talk with other SCS freshmen and faculty in person :(
- 07-131 Great Practical Ideas in Computer Science
  - Useful for learning terminal/git basics, which I didn't really know before. TAs were all nice SCS upperclassmen with cool presentations and advice.
- 98-127 StuCo: Game Creation for People Who Want to Make Games

**Other**: worked in [LIMINAL][liminal] with Game Creation Society

**Workload**: mostly moderate

[numbat]: https://thenumbat.github.io/cmu/
[weihang]: http://weihang7.github.io/courses/
[iso]: {{site.url}}/code/isometrism
[liminal]: {{site.url}}/code/liminal
[penrose]: https://penrose.ink/
